# Migrate from Magda v0.0.60 to v1.0.0

## Upgrade database

Magda v1.0.0 has upgrade postgreSQL to version 13. If you use dataset service from cloud providers (e.g. AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL), you can follow the instructions from the service providers to upgrade your database and migrate data before upgrade Magda.

If you use in-k8s postgreSQL dataset instance that comes with Magda, you will need to manually migrate your data.

One option is to use [pg_dump](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/app-pgdump.html) & [pg_restore](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/app-pgrestore.html):

- 1> Deploy Magda v1.0.0 to a seperate namespace. Ensure the deployment is fully complete and functional.
- 2> Use [pg_dump](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/app-pgdump.html) to create database dump of all databases. They are:
  - `postgres` (registry DB)
  - `content`
  - `auth`
  - `session`
  - `tenant` (Only needed if you turned on the multitenancy feature)

You can use a command similar to the following:

```bash
PGPASSWORD=[DBPassword] pg_dump -h [DBHostName] -U postgres -Fc [DBName] > [DBName].dump
```

Here:

- `[DBPassword]` is the password for the default super user account `postgres`. If there is no password is set for `postgres` account, you can remove the `PGPASSWORD=[DBPassword]` portion from the command.
- `[DBHostName]` is the host name of database instance.
  - If you run this command in the same cluster, you can use `combined-db.[namespace].svc.cluster.local`. `[namespace]` is your magda deployment namespace.
  - If you want to run it on your local machine, you need to [port-forward](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/port-forward-access-application-cluster/) the database pod and put `localhost` as hostname.
- `[DBName]` is one of five database listed above
- `-Fc` switch makes `pg_dump` output a custom-format archive suitable for input into `pg_restore`.

- 3> Use [pg_restore](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/app-pgrestore.html) to restore database from the dataset dump files.

You can use a command similar to the following:

```bash
PGPASSWORD=[DBPassword] pg_restore --clean --if-exists --disable-triggers -d [DBName] -1 -U postgres -h [DBHostName] [DBName].dump
```

Here:

- `[DBPassword]` is the password for the default super user account `postgres`. Since Magda v1.0.0, supper user account user password compulsory and will be auto-generated (unless supplied). You can find it from secret `db-main-account-secret`.
- `[DBHostName]` is the host name of database instance.
  - If you run this command in the same cluster, you can use `combined-db-postgresql.[namespace].svc.cluster.local`. `[namespace]` is your magda deployment namespace.
- `[DBName]` is one of five database listed above
- `--clean --if-exists` switches make `pg_restore` drop the dataset objects before importing the data so that we don't need to worry about `duplicate keys` error.
- `--disable-triggers` switch will temporarily disable foreign key constraints and triggers so that we won't encounter `violates foreign key constraints` errors due to the restore sequence of the table data.
- `-1` switch make `pg_restore` perform the restore as one transaction.

- 4> Once data restore is complete for all database, you can redeploy the new Magda deployment to turn on the [backup mode](../how-to-recover-with-continuous-archive-backup.md) to backup the database.

- 5> Upgrade your existing Magda v0.0.60 deployment with [recovery mode](../how-to-recover-with-continuous-archive-backup.md) turned on to recover it from previous backup.

> It's possible to run `pg_dump` & `pg_restore` (Step 2 & 3 above) in your cluster as a k8s job.
> Here is an [example k8s template](https://gist.github.com/t83714/f9328639ad6815386f3e10690b4ee127) that allow you to run it as a k8s job with `kubectl apply -f`.

## Incompatible Changes

### Removal of `noDbAuth` mode

Previously, you can set `global.noDbAuth` to `true` to allow logging into in-k8s postgreSQL instance with no password. This option has been removed since v1.0.0, you are required to remove `global.noDbAuth` option from your config to avoid problems.

### Manually Turned On `correspondence-api` if required

Since v1.0.0 (see ticket #3221), correspondence-api is not part of default modules anymore.
i.e. the default `true` value for `tags.all` won't turn on `correspondence-api` by default.
If your deployment requires `correspondence-api`, you need to manually set `tags.correspondence-api` to `true` to turn it on.
