## v4.0.0

In v4.0.0 release, we switched our search engine to [OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch) that is [a community-driven, open source fork](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-opensearch/) of [Elasticsearch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elasticsearch) and [Kibana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kibana).

### Upgrade Options

#### Simple Option

Most functionalities of OpenSearch are still compitiable with Elasticsearch. To upgrade to v4 from the latest v3 version, you can simply update the `magda` or `magda-core` chart version number in your deployment without manual steps. However, as your existing index data in elasticsearch will be removed and the new OpenSearch index is still building, users will see partial results until the OpenSearch auto index building process is completed.

If your have a large index to build or want to avoid users' seeing partial results, you go for the "Manual Switch" upgrade option below.

> During the upgrade, existing elasticsearch cluster will be removed. However, the PVCs (PersistentVolumeClaims) & PVs (Persistent Volumes) will not be auto removed. When not required, they can be manually removed.

> For production deployment, please make sure the [opensearch](../../../deploy/helm/internal-charts/opensearch/README.md) chart is configured with sufficient resource and proper node numbers and roles.

#### Manual Switch Option

To prevent users from seeing partial results, you can update the helm chart config to serve the search requests from your existing ElasticSearch engine while the new OpenSearch engine index is still building.

To achieve that:

- Set `tags.elasticsearch` = `true` to prevent elasticsearch engine to be removed after v4 upgrade
- For production deployment, make sure the [opensearch](../../../deploy/helm/internal-charts/opensearch/README.md) chart is configured with sufficient resource and proper node numbers and roles.
- Set [search-api](https://github.com/magda-io/magda/tree/main/deploy/helm/internal-charts/search-api) Helm Chart config fields:
  - `appConfig.elasticSearch.serverUrl` to `http://elasticsearch:9200`
    - This ensure all search requests will still go to the existing elasticsearch engine after helm deployment
  - `image.tag` to `3.0.4`
    - Here, we assume your current MAGDA deployment version is the last v3 version: `v3.0.4`
- Set [elasticsearch](https://github.com/magda-io/magda/tree/main/deploy/helm/internal-charts/elasticsearch) Helm Chart config fields:
  - `image.tag` to `3.0.4`
    - Here, we assume your current MAGDA deployment version is the last v3 version: `v3.0.4`
- Update the `magda` or `magda-core` chart version number in your deployment and use helm to upgrade your deployment
- Monitor the progress of index building. You can access `https://<host>/api/v0/reindex/in-progress` API to check the progress. By default, admin role is required.
- Once the index building is completed, you can
  - remove the `appConfig.elasticSearch.serverUrl` config value of `search-api` chart
  - remove the `image.tag` config value of `search-api` & `elasticsearch` charts
  - remove `tags.elasticsearch` config value
  - Use helm to upgrade your deployment one more time.
    - This will ensure
      - all search requests go to the new OpenSearch engine
      - old elasticsearch will be removed from your cluster
        - The PVCs (PersistentVolumeClaims) & PVs (Persistent Volumes) will not be auto removed. When not required, they can be manually removed.

> As both elasticsearch & opensearch clusters will be running during the migration, you would want to make sure the cluster has sufficient resource or node pool auto-scaler is turned on.
